Document support of applicationsets in any namespace (#72955)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-enabling-the-application-set-resources-in-non-control-plane-namespaces.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/managing-app-sets-in-non-control-plane-namespaces.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-enabling-the-application-set-resources-in-non-control-plane-namespaces_{context}"]
= Enabling the application set resources in non-control plane namespaces

> As an Argo CD administrator, you can define a certain set of non-control plane namespaces wherein you can create, update, and reconcile `applicationSet` resources. You must explicitly enable and configure the Argo CD and `applicationSet` custom resources (CRs) as per your requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an Argo CD administrator, you can define a certain set of non-control plane namespaces wherein users can create, update, and reconcile `ApplicationSet` resources. You must explicitly enable and configure the `ArgoCD` and `ApplicationSet` custom resources (CRs) as per your requirements.
```

.Procedure

. Set the `sourceNamespaces` parameter for the `applicationSet` spec to include the non-control plane namespaces:
+
.Example Argo CD custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd

>   labels:
>     example: repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We can remove this label as it doesn't add any significant value to the example.

spec:
  applicationSet:
    sourceNamespaces: <1>
      - dev <2>
----

> <1> List of non-control plane namespaces for creating and managing `applicationSet` resources in target namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> List of non-control plane namespaces for creating and managing `ApplicationSet` resources
```

> <2> Target namespace for the Argo CD server to create and manage `applicationSet` resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> Name of target namespace to create and manage `ApplicationSet` resources
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we add a important note here with below ?
> Ensure that [Apps in Any Namespace](https://argocd-operator.readthedocs.io/en/latest/usage/apps-in-any-namespace/) is enabled on target namespace i.e the target namespace name is part of `.spec.sourceNamespaces` field in ArgoCD CR.

And we also need to mention about wildcards support. This can go as normal note or text. 
> As of now, wildcards are not supported in `.spec.applicationSet.sourceNamespaces`.

Author: adding this - As of now, wildcards are not supported in .spec.applicationSet.sourceNamespaces.

. Verify that the following role-based access control (RBAC) resources are either created or modified by the {gitops-shortname} Operator:
+
|===
|**Name** |**Kind** |**Purpose**

> |`<argoCDName-argoCDNamespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller` |`ClusteRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to watch and list `applicationSet` resources at cluster-level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`<argocdName-argocdNamespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller` |`ClusteRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to watch and list `applicationSet` resources at cluster-level.
```

> |`<argoCDName-argoCDNamespace>-applicationset` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to manage `applicationSet` resources in target namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`<argocdName-argocdNamespace>-applicationset` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to manage `applicationSet` resources in target namespace.
```

> |`<argoCDName-argoCDNamespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller` |`ClusteRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to watch and list `applicationSet` resources at cluster-level.
> 
> |`<argoCDName-argoCDNamespace>-applicationset` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to manage `applicationSet` resources in target namespace.
> 
> |`<argoCDName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `applicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`<argoCDName-argoCDNamespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller` |`ClusteRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to watch and list `ApplicationSet` resources at cluster-level.

|`<argoCDName-argoCDNamespace>-applicationset` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the `applicationSet` controller to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace.

|`<argoCDName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.
```

> |`<argoCDName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `applicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`<argocdName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `applicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.
```

= Enabling the application set resources in non-control plane namespaces

As an Argo CD administrator, you can define a certain set of non-control plane namespaces wherein users can create, update, and reconcile `ApplicationSet` resources. You must explicitly enable and configure the `ArgoCD` and `ApplicationSet` custom resources (CRs) as per your requirements.

.Procedure

. Set the `sourceNamespaces` parameter for the `applicationSet` spec to include the non-control plane namespaces:
+
.Example Argo CD custom resource
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: example-argocd
spec:
  applicationSet:
    sourceNamespaces: <1>
      - dev <2>
----
<1> List of non-control plane namespaces for creating and managing `ApplicationSet` resources
<2> Name of the target namespace for the Argo CD server to create and manage `ApplicationSet` resources
+
[NOTE]
====
At the moment, the use of wildcards (*) is not supported in the `.spec.applicationSet.sourceNamespaces` field.
====

. Verify that the following role-based access control (RBAC) resources are either created or modified by the {gitops-shortname} Operator:
+
|===

> |**Name** |**Kind** |**Purpose**

Author: thanks, @adellape. Created a JIRA for this issue - https://issues.redhat.com/browse/GITOPS-4225.

> |`<argocdName-argocdNamespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller` |`ClusteRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` |For the Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller to watch and list `ApplicationSet` resources at cluster-level.

Reviewer 3: I also just noticed this `ClusteRole` typo, so make sure to get that also in whatever you end up doing:
```suggestion
|`<argocdName-argocdNamespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller` |`ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` |For the Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller to watch and list `ApplicationSet` resources at cluster-level.
```

Author: thanks @adellape. We already have a [JIRA ticket ](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-5940)to focus on them. WIll address it as part of that issue.

|`<argocdName-argocdNamespace>-applicationset` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace.

> |`<argocdName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.

Author: Though this is user replaceable values, they are more like a naming convention  for rbac resources. Changing - with _ and also adding additional _ between them would make them technically incorrect. So retaining them as is. Thank you!

> |`<argocdName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.

Reviewer 3: We still need to adhere to the style guidelines, though I recognize a few spots now where it seems like the `-` should probably be retained.

For user-replaceable values (i.e., anything within `<>`s), they should be all lowercase and use `_` between multi-words, but if you want to still identify a related parameter that is relevant to them, you could use a callout (if this were a code block) or in this case just add some more context in the "Purpose" column, for example. Or possibly at that point maybe "Description" becomes a more appropriate column header there.

I'm just guessing here on what the related fields might be based on the context (although I couldn't find any reference in repo to these), but for example:

```
[options="header"]
|===
|Name |Kind |Description

|`<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-argocd-applicationset-controller`
|`ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding`
|For the Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller to watch and list `ApplicationSet` resources at cluster-level. Name is determined by the `argocdName` and `argocdNamespace` fields.

|`<argocd_name>-<argocd_namespace>-applicationset`
|`Role` and `RoleBinding`
|For the Argo CD ApplicationSet Controller to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace. Name is determined by the `argocdName` and `argocdNamespace` fields.

|`<argocd_name>-<target_namespace>`
|`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI. Name is determined by the `argocdName` and `targetNamespace` fields.
|====
```

> |`<argocdName-targetNamespace>` |`Role` and `RoleBinding` |For the Argo CD server to manage `ApplicationSet` resources in target namespace through UI, API, or CLI.

Author: Addressed. This is very helpful. Thank you, @adellape :)
